# FREMANTLE. - The W.A. Record (Perth, WA : 1888 - 1922) - 24 Sept 1921
- Citation: 1921 'FREMANTLE.', The W.A. Record (Perth, WA : 1888 - 1922), 24 September, p. 7. , viewed 02 Apr 2026, http://nla.gov.au/nla.news-article212402278
- Link: https://trove.nla.gov.au/newspaper/article/212402278
- Saved: 2026-04-02T03:27:33.389Z
- Source system: Trove
- Collection: FREMANTLE. - The W.A. Record (Perth, WA : 1888 - 1922) - 24 Sept 1921
- Record ID: 212402278
## Summary

The Star of the Sea Hibernians met on Monday evening last, the occasion of their customary fortnightly meeting, Bro. Alford presiding over a good ...

## Full Text

FREMANTLE.

(From Our Correspondent.)

The Star of the Sea Hibernians met on Monday evening last, the occasion of their customary fortnightly meet- ing, Bro. Alford presiding over a good muster. Sick pay was passed for pay-

ment to Bros. Devitt .Cullity, Kelle- her, Doyle, Healy, and Hayes. The secretary reported having attended the Foresters' card night, and experi- encing, a most enjoyable evening. He suggested some similar recreation among' the members of the. branch as a means of promoting sociability and friendly intercourse between members and their friends. The quarterly re- turns and balance sheets were read and adopted, together with the audi- tors' report, which paid a tribute to the work of the secretary. The sick fund during the quarter has experi- enced its heaviest drain since the for- mation of the branch 43 years ago. the withdrawals totalling £80. Comment- ing on this, the auditors felt gratified to state that the heavy drain had been so satisfactorily met, and that the branch had been capable of com- plying with its principle object in so prompt a manner. It was pleasing to think that members were able to re- ceive so great assistance when requir- ed. A welcome was extended to Bro. V. H. Satie, who has been stationed at Bunbury for some time, which the bro- ther suitably acknowledged. Accounts totalling £23 were passed for payment during the meeting. The members again disfigured the bulls-eyes with their new rifle, and spent an enjoyable night. Let us hope some clever per son does not discover a Sinn Fein plot in their latest recreation! ! Very Rev. Father Lockington, S.J., delivered his lecture, "Catholic Ire- land," to a great audience in the Town Hall on Tuesday evening. The dis- tinguished Jesuit made a decided hit with the crowd, and his discourse was greatly appreciated. He has a most entertaining delivery, and stressed his points extremely well. He spoke in a clear logical manner, which appealed to his hearers very forcibly. It is a great pity his stay is so short as to not allow of his giving Port folk his masterpiece, "Lourdes and the Super natural." It is seldom Fremantle is given the opportunity of hearing dis- tinguished speakers, being with a cou- ple of exceptions, devoid of any out- standing orators. This brings us to the question, "Why not concentrate our efforts on the for- mation of a debating club in connec- tion with one or more of our societies?" The self-determinationists possess the only orators in our midst at present. These two gentlemen may not always be available to uphold our prestige at Interstate Conventions and the like. Where are their successors to come from? Let us be up and doing. We have the material; develop it. We must be able to hold our own in future controversies. A carnival in aid of the forthcom- ing bazaar was held yesterday after noon and again to-day in Parry-street Convent schoolroom, when hard work on the part of the organisers and their assistants merited the realisation of a goodly amount. Not much time now remains in which to show our apprecia- tion of the self-sacrificing work of the good Sisters, consequently we should endeavour to make the few remaining weeks productive of much good. It is to be hoped that the debt on Mary's Mount will be completely effaced on the occasion of the bazaar, and so leave the Community without the dread spectre of debt overshadowing their work. The East Fremantle branch of the Self-Determination for Ireland League of Australia met on Sunday afternoon last. Mr. L. Brady was presented with a medal, donated by the vice- president. for securing most members. Mr. J. Macnamara has donated another medal to be similarly competed for. This branch deserves to be congratu- lated on its enthusiasm. Mr. J. Mona- ghan delivered a masterly address on current Irish-Australian matters, which was much appreciated. Great sympathy is felt for Mrs. Hounslow, who had the misfortune to lose her life-partner on Monday even- ing. Mr. Hounslow was only ill a day or two, and his untimely demise came as a severe shock to his many friends. Although not a Catholic, Mr. Houn- slow was a broad-minded man, and al ways encouraged his children to be true to their Holy Church. They are a credit to him, and we hope will be a consolation to Mrs. Hounslow in her hour of trial. The large number of robberies which have occurred in the Fremantle dis- trict during the past three months was added to on Monday morning, when a further case of theft was reported to the police. The premises of Mr. H. Tracey. newsagent and tobacconist, situated in Mandurah-road, were brok- en into on Saturday night or Monday morning, and a quantity of tobacco and cigarettes, valued at £12, were stolen. It is thought that entrance was gained to the building with a skeleton key. Fremantle folk, whilst appreciating the liberal action of Mr. Tom Coombe in making his scholarships available at the Christian Brothers College, and not wishing to retract from the liberal spirit prompting it, are wondering why he made it applicable to State schools only. Let us hope the C.B. boys may yet be allowed to compete for it.
